Dear [name]: It is with great interest that I respond to the position of [role] at [company]. I believe the combination of my background as a program researcher and my technical skills as a xxxx make me a great candidate.
In addition to the experience I bring as a former researcher, I also bring my skills as a developer. I rediscovered my interest in web development after realizing that I wanted to incorporate more creativity into my coding experience. Upon recognizing this, I started to reteach myself web-based programming and ultimately enrolled at the Flatiron School, where I developed the skills to become a software engineer. Having recently completed their program, I now look forward to applying my technical knowledge to build applications for mission-driven organizations.
During the program, I learned an array of programming languages, frameworks, and libraries at an accelerated pace. I used Ruby/Rails to handle the back-end, incorporating either SQLite or PostgreSQL to develop and manage databases. For three projects I used JavaScript to build the front-end, ultimately incorporating React to effectively manage state. Also, I utilized HTML and CSS to customize my applications to create theming and user-friendly interfaces.
In addition to my technical skills, I bring:
• Proven ability to balance competing timelines. At any given time in my career as a researcher, I worked on three to six projects. To manage my workload, I had to forecast upcoming tasks and openly communicate all overlapping conflicts/deadlines. • Capacity to learn skills quickly. Many times I was faced with the task of learning tools on the job to help move work forward. • Adeptness in project management. I worked closely with my team to manage project deliverables.
• Experience working with xxx.
I welcome the opportunity to meet with you and discuss the needs of the position and my qualifications in more depth. Thank you in advance for your consideration, and I look forward to hearing from you regarding next steps.
Respectfully,